listen what would it feel like so you're
scared of hate but I'm gonna ask you
another question what would it feel like
if if you didn't manipulate someone and
they chose to love you instead if they
actually said you know what despite all
of your BS and with you just being you
and without manipulating me I love you
how would that make you feel there would
be a comma afterwards I say I love you
now we're late for Quidditch is what I
would hear that's how crazy again it is
to me like that's what I would hear like
Oh even though you didn't you know make
me feel a certain way about you I love
you let's go win for Gryffindor like
that is how
oh man I did not sleep at all good lord
sorry to hear that man I know no no no
it's totally fine it's not it wasn't a
bad thing it was just okay I didn't
sleep so have you been I'm still alive I
think that's pretty much a blessing at
this point um I know that's what I was
going to tell you so do you remember
when like last time you told me all I
said I was going to clean my room
okay like at the end of it all I said
that well you'll be happy to know that I
kind of took that in a different
direction I clean my room but I also
found a new place to live that is not
with a bunch of people that don't pay
rent good for you yeah that is huge but
but yes that's what I've been doing
that's so let's talk about that for a
second okay because I think that's more
significant I mean it's a it sounds very
significant to me because not just from
a financial perspective but let's think
about why were you living with people
who didn't pay rent like what drove you
to do that well I think um like I've
always worked a lot of jobs and I don't
spend a lot of money I'm just myself so
when my first video on YouTube blew up
and I saw the money that I was making I
just was like oh man I could just live
with my best friends forever this is my
path to being Drake like I thought I was
gonna go so far that money whatever like
we could just live together that didn't
happen but at the time I thought that
was gonna happen so when things started
slowing down and getting bad after four
years of doing it I didn't really know
how to live alone or live with less
people so I kind of just
kept it going and added more people and
now I'm in crippling debt and I'm alone
okay sorry well so okay so how does how
does that feel to be in crippling debt
and alone ah the question I mean it
feels honestly the debt feels right it
feels like an ample punishment because I
also think that like by paying for
everything for everybody I I also
believe I kind of ruined their lives a
bit like I spoiled them and I didn't do
anything with it I would tell people
like during my depression oh yeah we're
gonna like videos are coming back we're
gonna work like you know we got this
just a we got this we got this and then
I never worked and that was like an
ongoing cycle for the next three years
so it's like I feel like with debt and
guilt it's pretty good pretty good
punishment it's pretty terrible okay so
so our and how does it feel to be alone
I think I will be okay is like I think
that I just need space to be like just
me and so I'm looking forward to that
like it feels good because I'm moving
like I'm moving a lot of my stuff like
today tomorrow the next day and it feels
good that I actually was brave enough to
just end the cycle so it's been so hard
so like I don't know how it's gonna be
but right now I'm very confident that if
I'm only financially taking care of
myself and I'm only doing things that
are like important for me instead of
putting everyone else first I'm hoping
that that will that'll be the catalyst
that starts change to make me come back
to yeah I was doing before
so Skyy I think it's great because I
think there was something within you
that felt like like you know a sense of
your identity was in
porting other people oh yeah and and so
you sort of let that part of you which i
think is is basically you know a part of
your ego and so like in order to be a
good person you had to like help other
people and pay their rent and like
Manono doubt that there was genuine
caring involved in terms of like you
know wanting your your friends and you
know to have an easy time and that your
success should you wanted to share your
success and all this other kind of good
stuff but i think it's actually a huge
step forward if you've let those voices
stop running the show and drive you into
crippling debt because that's what those
voices do yes a hundred iliyan present i
will say this though it kind of sucks
because along the way like i had made
friends that didn't need money like i
had made friends like when i would like
when i was be at home versus like going
out to conventions like packs and and
and whatnot like i would have friends
that are just there to chill i didn't
have to pay for anything i could just
relax and it sucks because like i just i
don't know i this this lifestyle kind of
ruined a lot of those relationships
because i wasn't even sure how to be a
good friend like i I treated them like
absolute garbage because I thought that
you know I could just solve any problem
like paying them but then if I couldn't
it's like Omar okay I don't have any
problem solving skills now yeah this is
[ __ ]
so what let's think about that for a
second why do you think that you treated
your friends that didn't need your help
like garbage
like that's strange right one would
expect turns out to not be very strange
but one would expect that the you know
that those would be the relationships
that would have been the healthiest and
that you have cultivated the most but it
seems like the opposite actually
happened I guess like I guess because my
actions that I would normally do towards
people that lived with me I did them on
others that didn't live with me and and
really stuck their neck out for me which
is like
you know one of them let me borrow like
what like without any hesitation at all
dropped
$8,100 literally like the next day when
I needed it right and two years down the
road
I didn't even begin to talk about paying
them back I probably could have if I
budgeted correctly and there's a lot of
people out there that I owe money to a
lot a lot like whatever you think is a
lot triple it and that's half like so I
with this particular case though she
ended up she was so hurt that I didn't
like talk to her about it because in my
world I'm thinking oh if I suspect if
someone gives me money after all these
years like people that live with me
I pretty much deserve it at that point
like after I had given the hundreds of
thousands of dollars for rent food all
the [ __ ] that we did it's like I don't
I'm family not gonna pay you back but
with the people outside of the home I
couldn't I didn't have the null the
basic human decency to just like honor
and agreement you know what I mean like
I didn't even think about it and it
[ __ ] me up really bad I mean it darned
me up it darn do you oh yeah oh yeah
thanks thanks for being sense on but
your language I appreciate that I'm
gonna pause for a second because
somebody just gifted a bunch of subs so
thanks nerd great luck to you I don't
know that is but thank you very much
guys we appreciate it but kind of coming
back to Skye subscribe what what do you
want to talk it up about today how can I
help you I mean we could dig into that
if you want to in your relationships and
why you perceive your relationships like
that but hey you know is there something
in do you feel like because last time
you you know you sent me that voicemail
which was really fantastic actually wait
which was you sent me like a voicemail
that that you recorded like you sent me
like this tech like this voice message
that was like you were in bed and trying
to fall asleep and you had some thoughts
and you said
yeah so we can together you were talking
about like when you should start making
changes oh yeah
so love our what do you want to talk
about you tell me like what would be
helpful okay um I think we already
discussed like the feeling of it being
too late to do things I got this because
III put notes I even yeah that's right I
had notes I'm so dumb I when I when I
had reached oh do you want me to just I
don't think there's I know yeah like if
I start right this second will it prove
that like you know I won't procrastinate
or is it better to start later after
I've had preparation like it's jumping
into something cold turkey the way to go
or is waiting and being prepared better
or are they both rationalizations that's
what I was confused about yeah so you
tell me why don't we talk is there
something particular on your mind do you
want to dig into that do you want to
talk about friendships tell me what do
you think would be pretty bad so I want
to know can I read people can I play the
voicemail for people did yeah I think I
still have it a lot oh it's it's not I
don't think it's it's not like no I know
I know oh you do if you look in our
group shot oh it's in the group Cheyenne
yeah you just scroll up there's a big
black okay
square yeah here we go y'all ready chat
we're gonna it's like super
unprofessional I'm sorry for doing it
this way but I'm about to sleep my voice
is dead and then add this thought and
I'm totally down don't like talk about
this another community he'll have me but
I wanted to ask when it comes to life
changes like things that we talked about
is that something that I should just do
[ __ ] side
okay this is like to like talk about
this another community will have me but
I wanted to ask when it comes to life
changes like things that we talked about
is that something that I should just do
immediately right now or is there merit
of like setting a date to start like why
do you think like setting a date is
rationalizing yeah like what would be
the wisest way to affect change in a
healthy manner it's like kind of my
question again so sorry this is like
super alright do you guys got that so
let's go back to this okay so what do
you think um I I can't tell when I'm
manipulating myself or people I don't
know how to tell and it's getting bad
because even if I was like now when I
talk I could be telling the truth but
everyone will think I'm manipulating but
then am I like that's like I don't even
know like that that's why I sent that
because I was thinking about everything
you said about or that really helpful
session about you know going on Sage
giving it your all but then being
content because that was the best you
could have done and I was like that is
genius but I don't know when to start
and I can't tell what my brain if I
brain is tricking me or not so that's
yeah so I think a great it's so first of
all you've taken the first important
step which is realizing that your brain
loves to trick you right is that normal
it's completely normal
it's very normal so so that that and
even then you're kind of saying you were
saying that oh like sometimes like I'm
telling the truth and people think I'm
being manipulative I think some of the
times when you're the most manipulative
sky is when you tell the truth and
right no I mean the damn so just because
you're telling the truth doesn't mean it
isn't manipulative I cannot understand
that you can honor like you don't I
don't get I don't how are you like like
manipulating the truth or no so so I
think I think manipulation so let's
define manipulation right so what is
manipulation
I guess changing or maybe not reforming
what's the word I'm looking for it like
bothering an object or an idea I'm so
I'm trying to find the right it's it's
it's a hard question harder than it
seems uh I'm gonna say changing changing
something by way of not something with
malicious intent okay I don't know yeah
yeah yeah yeah changing something with
malicious intent it's great it's great
right so so I I think it's sort of like
controlling someone's behavior usually
like altering something for the purpose
of controlling someone else's behavior
and like with some degree of like
malicious intent or you're kind of
taking advantage of them you know it's
like a little bit immoral there's
something in there I don't know that
it's necessarily malicious attack but I
basically think about manipulating
someone is sort of altering information
or tailoring information to control
someone else's behavior like that's what
manipulation is manipulation is about
controlling other human beings right
yeah and sometimes one of the best ways
you can control other human beings is by
telling the truth
Oh My Jesus Christ okay right so I I
think that you do some manipulative
stuff you're kind of an open book but I
think you understand how being an open
book can be advantageous to you and I
think you calculate something about that
hmmm I think I think that you're right
for the most part but I'm not lying when
I say that I just don't know when the
manipulation switch is on I completely
agree with you I do not blame you for
manipulating okay to be clear so I think
manipulation happens a lot of times when
we don't even want it to but it happens
almost so like why do you want to
control another person's behavior like
what's like when you think about when
you manipulate when one human being
manipulates another human being what is
the main thing that drives them what
drives the manipulation to to make sure
that they don't do anything bad that has
anything to do with you maybe yes so if
you have to say if you had to attach an
emotion to that what is the emotion that
one feels when I don't want you to do
something bad to me what is the emotion
I'm feeling I don't want you to do
something fear absolutely I think it's
it's it's weird right so like I know
that this stuff seems really simple in
in in a sense it is but we don't ever
stop and like think about what actually
drives us and you can get to the answer
it's just like let's just that's you're
doing great sky so the first thing
you're when you manipulate people out of
fear like if you think about it like if
I you know let's say I'm married and and
you know let's use a real example so you
know my wife doesn't want me to play as
many video games as I play and so then
she's like oh like how late like I have
trouble waking up on the weekends and
then she's like okay like how late were
you up and then then I like I want to
manipulate the information a little bit
right I'm like oh I I did a little bit
of work and I played some donut I sort
of say like both of those things even
though the little bit of work may have
been 60 seconds and then the donut may
have been two hours but like I sort of
present it like I did both of those
things like that's manipulation right
it's manipulation yes so in that moment
like why am i manipulating like what is
the drive behind me manipulating can you
guess I mean I would say in that case
it's like
think it sounds like you kind of know
your body and I guess what's best for
you so maybe you did that because you
didn't want to elicit a reaction that
would be disastrous so you wanted to
save that exactly so I'm trying to
control another person's behavior right
I didn't want to elicit a reaction that
is not gonna like affect me well because
you think like listen me then like you
know right that causes marital problems
fine
so would you you were you conscious like
in that example like are you saying that
knowing fully well what you're doing a
hundred percent me at this point usually
but that takes practice right so it
takes practice so the first thing so
then like a if the goal of manipulation
is to control someone's behavior and
then if the reason you want to control
their behaviors to prevent a particular
outcome where's the root of the desire
to manipulate coming from so that
question may be a little bit yeah I have
no clue so like what is the thing that's
driving the manipulation let me ask let
me ask it that way we were kind of
talking about emotions earlier um like
for me I guess like I oh well actually
God I know I know so just like how you
said right that 30 seconds or a minute
of work in two hours of dota I did the
same thing for about five years when it
came to people I was living with like
how much money was actually needed to
like maintain this lifestyle and then
like I know that I would definitely like
not be honest about how much I was
paying for rent or who was paying rent
or how many people you know was I doing
this for but I would be telling the
truth in explaining that yes there are
people that don't pay things
yes rent is high yes I pay everything
but I was never I was never like
forthcoming with the information I was
really afraid to like
I was really afraid that anyone would
just call me an idiot because I was
being one like so because it was so like
yeah so good so what's the driving force
there you often you said it you said it
but yes I'm gonna suggest just to not
have someone think that I'm a complete
idiot yeah so so in that - you said you
were afraid that someone was gonna call
you an idiot right and also everyone
like it's so obvious to everyone else
like and it's so stupid that I'm sitting
here and I'm like literally giving
putting myself in a lifetime out of debt
but yet when I lament like when I tell
my problems to literally anyone even at
the peak of their honesty like everyone
it was all the same like dude you gotta
leave you gotta live by yourself like
yeah you should do this man that's so
dumb and it's hard because it's like I
can't do that like I don't know I don't
know why I couldn't do that and for
everyone else it's like they they're all
gods that they all could do it if they
were me they'd be doing it right now and
it's like I couldn't do it I can't bring
myself to do okay so they're two layers
of this sky I'm gonna try to keep track
of both of them I'm gonna stick always
start with manipulation because this is
very important I think this could help a
lot of people so fear is what drives
your manipulative tendencies right so
for you if you're saying I don't know
when I'm manipulating and when I'm not
manipulating what can you look at within
yourself to give you a clue whether
there's manipulation or there's not
manipulation what I'm scared of
absolutely right
so you look hard here right you look for
fear because you have learned like so
remember manipulation is not it's not
about evil that's why I don't like the
word malicious manipulation in your case
I think is predominantly about
protection it's your mind trying to
protect you from everyone calling you an
idiot because you have the curse of
being smart and you know that what
you're doing is stupid and you know that
if other people know what you're doing
they're gonna tell you things
that they're gonna say it's stupid
they're gonna think you're stupid and
they're gonna give you solutions that
any idiot could do but you're not gonna
be able to do them and you know that
because what keeps those people in your
house is not IQ its feelings and like
feelings could give they don't care
about what the rationale is like the
reason that you've been like keeping
people in your house and I don't know
where this goes but we can explore it
but like you know somewhere along the
way I mean we've talked some about your
past is like you you want to support
people you want to help people like you
don't want to abandon them because
you've been [ __ ] abandoned and you
don't want you know you want people to
be like safe and comfortable and like
that didn't happen for you so I think
there's something there we can go there
if you want to but let's table that for
a second if you're okay with it I'm just
highlighting a little bit because I
don't think it's idiocy that keeps these
people in your house right there's that
is actually coming from some kind of
positive emotion within you because if
you think about the stupider and action
is the more powerful the thing has to be
within you that gets it done so this is
another thing that I see a lot is people
judge themselves for doing like
astronomically idiotic stip and what I
want all of you guys to understand is
that if you're doing something that
everyone else is causing Stute calling
stupid
that just makes you feel more and more
incompetent but that's incomplete that's
not right it's not that you're stupid
it's that there is something within you
that is driving you so hard that it
overcomes how glaringly idiotic at us
does that make sense
yeah so we'll get to
let's go back to fear and manipulation
but I think you know when you say like
oh it's like all these people would call
me stupid like you don't want them to
think that about you but what what's
really going on is like I don't think
they understand right like sky they
don't get it they don't understand why
you do what you do you may not even get
it you may not understand why you do
what you do all you know is that what
they think is simple you just you're not
going to be able to do that you just
can't kick everyone out of your house
and [ __ ] this I mean darn this okay this
is a bombshell I think I don't know I
was like the whole time you were talking
I was struggling to see if I should say
this but I will I mean in in in a good
amount of those cases if yeah they would
call me an idiot but I believe that they
also wouldn't give me money they
wouldn't let me borrow anything if they
knew that it was going to all these
people that are just pretty much free
living mm-hmm so it's easier to just say
that I'm the target and not let anyone
know that they're not doing what they
need to do because I don't want them to
be scrutinized but I certainly don't
want to be scrutinized it's like I
wanted to I wanted to say that the
lifestyle worked for me and I did
genuinely believe that while I was
depressed if I just kept this lifestyle
going like my friends would eventually
uplift me and I would be back on my feet
in no time so whatever money I borrowed
from someone it was always like oh man
that's a lot but I I can do it now like
you know I'm feeling better and then it
never got better and then having a bunch
of people here then turned into the
worst decision I've ever made
like that's that's my thing is that I
threw it all I've turned it all of my
social relationships to maintain this
lifestyle and now it's like even the
people living here I've never been this
alone in my life easy like so alone like
it's nuts
I'm just annoying to everybody now I'm
on the internet and that just that's
like
that's all and it's quite a bit what are
you feeling right now
terrible yeah that I can counter yeah
you know what yeah yeah I mean this is
all like retribution though right like
everyone that's been cancelled online as
like they're typically trying to do
something and forget the past well then
they get canceled for something that was
brought up and I've always thought like
I have a lot of actions that I've done
in my home that definitely could raise a
cancel like for sure but to me my
punishment is again debt until I'm dead
and being alone like I I feel like even
I I feel like I'm I did all of this
damage to myself almost entirely no one
else's to blame and that's really hard
for me to live with like really really
hard I can't do it sometimes did you how
long have you been living with that Oh
like ever since 2015
like I oh yeah a hundred percent around
then what my channel started going down
when I was depressed I just felt like
damn
even though depression you think
everything that happens to you is your
fault yes a hundred percent times ten
that happens to me good or bad is a
direct action of me 100%
how long have you paddles if I could be
any other way
what how long have you believed that my
whole life okay what does it mean if it
if that isn't true to me that's like
like if that's not true then also in
that world where it's not true humans
can also fly like they could just soar
into the air because to me I think that
whatever action you took I just always
thought well I did this action or like I
was a catalyst in this way so I
shouldn't have done that kind of asked
for it stuff like that yeah so I'm gonna
say something to you okay so like
sometimes when I work with people they
say things like oh yeah the fact that it
was my fault that he hit me because I
should have done a better job at like
cleaning up it wasn't his fault it was
my fault what do you think about that
for that person maybe
oh man
be honest guy I don't think it's the
person the person that got hit on done
it's not there
oh my brain is short-circuiting I know
okay good sure that's what we're here
for
yeah let's understand let's understand
what's the short what's the short
circuit because it's pain because it's
not
oh [ __ ] okay it this is the hardest
thing okay it's not the person that got
hit it's not their fault but they were a
part of the act no that's stupid
it doesn't matter if they were part of
it they got hit by a monster but they're
there they're in it I guess they're
doing so tell me what you're feeling
oh just ah that's that that sound is how
I'm feeling
oh yeah so let me try to put words to
that sound okay yes thank you so first
of all I think you're doing great sky
sorry for bodying that's so hard like
yeah I know I'm but do you want to do
you want to take a break
earth no no no no no no no we should
dive right in I'm good I'm just like
yeah I'm good I'm ready okay so I think
here's what's going on with anything so
you know that that's not that person's
fault right like when they get hit and
they say oh it's because I didn't do XYZ
like I should have been better you
there's a part of you that knows that
it's it's ridiculous that we call that
the person who got hit is not the
perpetrator they're the victim the
problem is like if I say if I make you
say that
you say like that's true for them but
it's not true for me but like yeah how
can I say that it's not true for me
because that's just [ __ ] - what it
isn't
Oh God it does exactly oh yes if I have
if I was left alone with that and that
wouldn't end this guy okay right so so
so that that can be so good good job
right and the feeling is good I think
you actually did a very good job of
describing how you felt right which is
like that it's like an existential grunt
it's like just like a torturous like you
can't because it doesn't compute like
you know that you shouldn't feel this
way about yourself but you do
and it doesn't matter how true that
scenario is for this fictional person it
does not apply to you you are different
and you have trouble computing that
together and your thing is blurry by the
way your mic there we go yeah okay yeah
um I was gonna say that first of all
you're great and second of all the
reason why I would think that I'm
different is because I think that I was
born with a lot of advantages that makes
it so those kinds of situations I
believe they're very it's very hard for
that to happen to me like for example
like okay I'm like six five if I don't
hunch my back so it's like I don't
really have to worry about walking into
my car
I'm huge no one's gonna attack me and
they think that I'm gonna fight them I'm
a [ __ ] I will run but they don't think
that so like in that scenario if someone
were to jump me right sure that's not my
fault but in my mind it's like that is
probably not going to happen because I
have a I have a set of skills and
physical attributes that make it
difficult for those things that happen
to me yeah but I mean pardon me for
being insensitive but no please you know
so there so first of all this this is a
belief that is not doesn't it wasn't
born today right the belief that you are
everything that happens to you is your
fault
was not born today you felt this way
as you say your whole life off ever
since that ever since the rape I felt
that light times 10 ya think
right yeah so like this is if I wasn't
on AOL and and and so this is the thing
back then you weren't six five right and
you weren't an adult you were a kid and
you
and and this is unfortunately what
happens to people who have been abused
is they think that it's their small a
fault especially when they're kids
and it's funny I just talked about this
but what are you feeling I mean I I I
think it was my fault hundred percent
yeah hundred percent and then when I
look at even things that I do now my
channel my twitch my friendships my debt
all of that all of it my fault entirely
a hundred percent the sky what is it
beautiful isn't your fault what does the
world look like it like I said people
opened the window right now Harry Potter
is about the draft me for Quidditch like
that's the same world so so yeah so
let's let's take into that because I
think this has to be this has to be
approached okay so I think right now so
let's think about let's remember that
our mind does things for a reason okay
and our mind is really trying to help us
out a lot of times it doesn't do as good
of a job as we want it to but that's
just because it doesn't know how to do
any better so let's think about why your
worldview is so difficult to abandon so
right now the good thing about your
worldview is that it makes sense right
like it makes sense that you live in a
world where you were an actor or like
isn't you could take action not like
your fake but that you are like an actor
in the world and you exert agency in the
world and the world responds to you so
the world makes sense because like you
know you're you're playing a video game
and you control the character and if you
hit the spacebar the character jumps and
that's just it makes sense every time
you get the space part of the character
jumps so this is a world that makes
sense
you also have control over this world if
you are responsible for everything that
happens to you that also means you have
a hope right if you can learn how to be
a better person then you can create the
life that you want you can create a life
where you're safe you can create a life
where you're loved you can create a life
where you're wealthy you can create a
life where you're comfortable all of
these things are within your power if
only you figure out how right oh I mean
yeah yeah that sounded great I was I was
lost
like damn sign me up for that yeah so
that's that's the the beautiful thing
about the world that you've constructed
because you at the end of the day like
all of these things are possible for you
but it's kind of you feeling something
yeah I'm feeling just getting drink
water continue you're good
I'm curious what you're feeling I'm just
waiting for Harry Potter behind them in
his world that Cummins drive neo but I
just I want to hear more as though I
don't think Harry Potter's out there ok
so so I think the challenge here though
is that like that's not actually the way
the world works right because like the
the the hard thing about giving up your
worldview is you give up control for
your future if other people are involved
like let's say there's two kinds of
world like there's like there's a
single-player game and there's a
multiplayer game and if you're playing a
single-player game then you can control
everything in the game but if you're
playing multiplayer and I'm like I'm
running around and like I get like PvP
and ganked yes then like I don't want to
live in the multiplayer world because
like other people can interfere with me
and so I defeat huh sorry the days out
and I'm saying they feed like if I play
with someone yeah they're gonna be like
noobs yeah thank you yes and and so it
can actually be like a little bit
dangerous to think about living in a
multiplayer world because like you're
actually not in control and that thought
is terrifying like yeah you yeah I don't
like that and an especially especially
when we when we look at you know for
example victims of traumatic experiences
so this is gonna be kind of a random
thing but often times people or who are
people who are anorexic or have eating
disorders that's oftentimes linked to an
abusive relationship in their early
years so they have especially like a
parent or something who is like really
mean to them or something
or have a conditional affection or
things like that and if you talk to
these people like so eating disorders
the root issue if you talk to people is
it's about control so someone like a 15
year old girl with
anorexia like all of the ones that I've
worked with when I talked to them it's
all about control they can't control
their parents they can't control their
grades but they can control what they
put in their body and it's this really
bizarre sense of control and the more
you try to control what they eat the
more they fight and the more they rebel
they just want to be able to commits all
about control control control it's not
about intelligence you could show them
as much information that you want to
about them becoming getting osteoporosis
at a young age or electrolyte balances
or things like that oftentimes these
people when they're very severe they get
hospitalized against their will because
they're not eating in their bodies like
literally dying in their heart is
getting arrhythmias at the age of 15
which they should not have and they they
just you cannot communicate with them on
any kind of rational level because for
them it's all about control they cannot
surrender control because early on in
their life they did not have it and the
thought of not having again is
absolutely terrifying because you will
tell yourself whatever you can to not be
12 years old and on AOL again because in
that moment in your life you didn't have
control and and there's no [ __ ] way
you're willing to go back to that state
and you're 65 when you stand up straight
and you were in control and the world is
gonna give you what you deserve and you
were gonna create what the world gives
you I was but like I it wasn't like it
wasn't like I just like logged onto AOL
and then a dude came to rape me like it
was way way more than that like I was
literally like in a gay chat room trying
to get information about you know being
a semen demon and an app and a guy DM me
and lied to me about who he was we
talked for a bit I think he darks the
hell out of me
which is why he when he asked I'm so mad
when he asked if I lived out sterile I
did not even think why anybody would ask
me that we're to this day I like if I
could just go back it's like I just feel
like you shouldn't have done that like
everything else is fine tell him you
live upstairs in your parents room he'll
break in and die but
no I had to answer that yeah so why are
you telling me that what are you doing
what are you using those statements for
what's the function of your words in
this conversation because that action is
not just a one-way thing like there are
things that I could have done to prevent
it and I just feel like it didn't I
didn't feel like I didn't have control
of the situation and all really I felt
that oh [ __ ] oh my god no I sound like
law and order I'd literally was about to
say it felt like I wanted it to happen
and I don't know if that's true I know
it wasn't I know that it definitely
wasn't true when the cops came here but
it's like like in the middle of it in
the middle of it of the rape the only
thing I remember vividly is that my body
tried to like convince my mind that this
felt good and it was okay because you're
gay so it's like well you're gay so this
is what's gonna happen anyway so like I
I don't I guess I just tricked myself
and I've always felt really guilty
because like I tell people that you know
I think the worst part about being raped
a conversation that I think should be
opened a lot more is that because your
body is really good at protecting itself
there was about two seconds where it was
enjoyable it felt good and a day and
then I have to live with that that it
was the most painful thing that happened
to me but my body tried to convince
myself that it was fine for two seconds
I think that's the whose fault was it
mine I mean I died
I I felt if my mind convinced me of that
I I don't know if anybody else would
think that but think what
like my mind didn't my mind tried to
make it okay I guess so I gotta feel
like if my mind made it okay oh [ __ ]
this is hard ooh I kind of felt like if
my mind made this okay then somewhere
deep in the recesses of my psyche is
guilt like maybe I did something to
provoke it or something and and my mind
was just following up it's like oh well
I think this is kind of what you wanted
maybe not as violent but I've never been
able to explain why I felt that way but
I just have to live with that so after
that if I can make my brain feel like
that then I figured okay it doesn't get
much worse than that like you can you
can you sky I can tell that you're
working through a lot of stuff I'm not
able to quite keep up so can you help me
understand what you mean by guilt so
it's clear to me that you sort of
figured something out I'm just not able
to follow you quite as quickly so what
do you feel guilty for
in a gay chat room and like specifically
not really talking I didn't have anyone
to talk to about being gay my house so
it's like I feel guilty for taking that
method when maybe it would have been
better to do to me more healthy like
reach out to someone that's not in my
family or I don't know something like
that like that might at the action that
I took was like why would I do that like
it didn't it just doesn't make sense
this guy do you deserve forgiveness
absolutely not 0% no way cuz I mean I
did a lot I did too much damage to
people even now like like a lay in the
wake of bring out your dead like there
are so many lives that I've ruined and
then obviously like I mean I eat it
doesn't get any worse than lying to your
fans like six times and going through
the exact same cycle to the point where
even your most loyal banja like I we're
done and then I want I wanted
forgiveness but I would always like mess
it up so so at this point I deserve it
yeah no I don't think so how would you
feel if people did forgive you well I
wouldn't
I'd have to get my Nimbus 2000 and hop
right on that [ __ ] Quidditch team
that's the first thing that I would I
would if people forgave me I'm out there
right now getting the seeker like for
Hogwarts for Gryffindor no I'm a
Hufflepuff but you know that's how I
feel okay getting that Nimbus can I just
think for a second sky absolutely I'm
gonna just sit and look at my phone sky
do you are you a good person yeah no no
okay
do you are you loved
I don't know have you been loved before
I don't know I can't tell cuz that's
what I struggled with with my mom
forever is after the rape my brother
told everyone and bullied me about it
like no one in the family seemed to
think that was heinous or terrible and
is like oh alright you go to NICs baby
shower he just put in 2000 and what 17
18 just put all my angry texts out there
and Facebook and my reddit and all my
rape business out and ridiculed it again
but but yeah let's go to NICs baby
shower like trash
so if that's happening how could you
look how could you love someone and take
that action it makes no sense yeah
therefore I'm gonna just think for
another minute okay thank you for
answered your questions Yoko
so sky um first of all do you have any
questions for me cuz I think I think we
may be coming to maybe a closing point
soon just I want to just see if there's
anything I mean this this is this part
of me is very dark and remember in the
beginning I said like I feel like I have
unfixable problems uh-huh I think that
what we're diving into now is like the
final lock and key I agree it's a nice
no question yeah basically so I don't
mind I don't mind that being a stopping
point at all yeah so so I don't I don't
think we're done but I I just think that
there's something I need to spend some
time thinking about and there's some
thoughts that I want to share with you
and I'd love to get your your reaction
to what I want to share with you but
something tells me that your immediate
reaction is not going to be as important
is you thinking about this over the next
few days yeah and and I'm happy to do
another show whenever okay so Skye the
first thing is that what I'm going to
tell you I think is going to require
immense immense courage and also I don't
blame you if you decide not to go down
this road but essentially your entire
life is built upon this very very simple
premise that needs to be like that needs
to be yanked out from under you and if
it can be then I think you can be fixed
but in order for this premise to be
yanked out you have to be willing to
yank it out and I think it's going to be
absolutely terrifying because it's going
to change the way that you see the world
but in order to do the things that I
think you need to do to live a happy
life you have to change your worldview
so let me explain what I mean you live a
life where everything has comes down to
you everything is your under your
control everything is kind of your fault
both the good and the bad that other
people don't essentially have agency in
the world that other people acting or
just based upon whether you can
manipulate them enough to do the things
that you want right like either you're
gonna manipulate them and then they'll
do the right thing in which case you're
responsible or you're insufficient in
terms of manipulating them which is like
your fault once again because you didn't
like handle the relationship the right
way right it doesn't it doesn't presume
that there's any kind of agency or
control outside of you does that make
sense also like I think somewhere along
the way you stopped you closed the doors
to you being capable of being loved and
I didn't ask you if you're able to love
I think you are I think what what's
challenging here is that I don't know if
you're willing to take the risk to be
loved again because I think that like
that huh what was that the the yank the
blanket the part of it buddy that's part
of it I think you have to risk a lot of
things one is the possibility of
understanding that other human beings
actually have agency and control in this
world which is a terrifying thought
right oh yeah it's what it's like taking
taking a single player person and
sticking them into a multiplayer game
they're like this is not what I signed
up for
oh you learn how to clap back yeah so
that's exactly and and so you have but
like and I think that there's a part of
you so now I want you to look within
yourself there's a part of you that
recognizes that like when some people
are the vic-20 have a 12 year old that
gets raped by an adult man who found
where the kid lived
you know that that is not the 12 year
olds fault like you know that but it
feels like it was your fault and this is
what happens to people who were abused
so people who are abused start to it's
it's almost it's not like it's not
you're stupid in fact it's the opposite
so in a very simple level it comes down
to theory of mind and now I'm gonna get
a little bit academic so when you have a
child there understand huh well yeah
just really quick I was I just turned 15
at the time I don't know oh right yeah
but go on you're good so I think when
you know when kids are young less less
so when they're 15 but when kids are
young they don't understand that other
human beings have thoughts and feelings
and action like have behaviors like they
just don't understand they don't have
like theory of mind so they don't have
the capacity to understand that like it
like you know I have a two-year-old and
my two-year-old doesn't understand that
like I have thoughts and feelings of my
own they're just if they want daddy
don't like tell them the story at 3:00
in the morning when they've woken up
like they don't understand that I'm
tired like that doesn't compute the
brain has not developed the capacity to
understand that other human beings like
think and act in a particular way and
that they have their own reasons for
doing things which is why abusing a
child is so devastating because if
nothing else exists in the world so let
me put it this way it's like a
five-year-old is basically playing a
single-player game because their brain
does not have the capacity to recognize
that other people are actually they
think everyone is an NPC when it's
actually like another like it's like
another player that's zoned into your
server but they think everything is NPCs
that make sense and if something bad
happens to a five-year-old and you're in
a world full of NPCs whose fault is it
your fault absolutely right because
everyone else is an NPC and it's a is
yeah wow I never I I never actually it
that my do you think that's linked so I
like babies don't really have object
permanence and then like when you just
make something disappear they think it's
gone forever yes as they can't okay sort
of so object permanence is a slightly
different thing why but they yeah it is
linked in the sense that that's one
example of
fundamental capacity that a baby does
not have that adults do have and another
capacities is called theory of mind
which is separate from object permanence
but which is your ability to like
recognize that other people have
persistent thoughts and feelings and
there are their own agents so when it
god oh yeah I mean that what you just
said like everyone have their own
thoughts and feelings and agency I just
to me I can't even imagine that being
true
yeah I know that sounds terrible though
right wait so so so now we understand
actually like the the the depth of or
sort of the how can I say this how
deeply rooted this belief isn't in you
and the first question is like whether
you're willing to try to live a life
where you're not in control
whether you're try whether you're
willing to try to live a life where you
could let other people love you and like
it doesn't it doesn't surprise me that
you don't feel loved because you know
like love genuinely comes from another
person it's not something that you can
control you can't manipulate someone to
love you like true authentic love I
don't think you can really manipulate
out of someone and and so if you're the
only agent it doesn't surprise me that
you're not able to kind of feel love
because it's like you don't really know
what that is like are you just
manipulating them is that the way
they're treating you that way like and
you also have this sort of oh my god yes
yeah but yes so in order for you to feel
loved you have to give people the
opportunity to like have control over
the way that they treat you so you're
bigoted yeah huh and now I'm uh oh you
said it so perfectly
goddamnit when you just said like you
know you if someone feels a certain way
about you
do they feel that way because you went
through leaps and bounds to kind of
manipulate your image how are you like
it's almost like you're almost like I'm
taking everyone in the world and then
saying you don't have to have a first
impression of me let me just go ahead
and coat in what I want you to think
about me like so that you'll never get
it wrong like that's but then it what is
what if someone just hates you um this
is terrible so sky this is so I started
this off with it requires courage on a
level that you do have never experienced
this is terrible thought yes right you
have to you have to be willing to let
them hate you no no I I would rather
think about existing and death times 10
than this
I know so it's is courage on an order of
magnitude that you have never well what
if they what if they hate me but if I
just was able to tell them a little
about lightning sky oh okay
what would it feel like so you're scared
of hate but I'm gonna ask you another
question what would it feel like if if
you didn't manipulate someone and they
chose to love you instead if they
actually said you know what despite all
of your BS and with you just being you
and without manipulating me
I love you how would that make you feel
there would be a comma afterwards I say
I love you
now we're late for Quidditch is what I
would hear that's how crazy again it is
to me
like that's what I would hear like Oh
even though you didn't you know make me
feel a certain way about you I love you
let's go win for Gryffindor like and
that is how absolutely impossible but
it's not like it's not like I'm a
monster or something it's that like I I
don't even really like I mean I hate
myself I mean many of us do we just
don't really want to say it so it's like
if I hate Who I am oh well I'm not gonna
let up like other people see this mess
as for what it is because then they'll
hate me too that's crazy there's no way
I have to show at least that I have the
desire and the will to change and be
better otherwise what's the point why
even beloved like if you're not gonna
love your soul this doesn't make sense
to me damn I must sound like a psycho no
I don't think you sound like a psycho I
think you sound like someone who was
abused and it wasn't sufficiently loved
when you were growing up that's what
that's what when people are abused and
don't have an appropriate home
environment to get them through that
abuse they end up sounding like you I
don't think you're psycho I think you're
I think it's the only way that you've
learned how to survive this is this this
all of these thoughts and constructions
that you have are about survival because
the thought that someone could see you
for who you are and accept you is
mind-boggling and there's no [ __ ] way
that you're willing to risk it and
because you never risk it you're never
getting data to the contrary of your
opinion you've never given an
opportunity for someone to love you so
how can you possibly be loved because at
this point you're just fake and and what
I'm asking you to do requires a lot of
courage it requires you to let someone
see the real you and then let them make
their own decision and then understand
because it's devastating
because I can even there's even a part
of you that actually doubts that you're
actually a piece of [ __ ] but you would
rather sit in the comfort of the thought
that you're a piece of [ __ ] rather than
risk the the chance that it could be
wrong and then like you really know for
a hundred percent because that's the
same thing as like my channel is like I
could put a hundred percent into my
videos I've never done that yeah I
haven't because you've got the slice of
protection right yeah right right and
I've been actually a failure I just
didn't give it my all yeah and then now
it's like so sky Icecrown sound it
worked out - courage and courage courage
I don't care about what looked out so
you just have to decide are you willing
to live a life where you are willing to
risk are you willing to be loved are you
willing to be successful are you willing
to fail are you willing to be rejected
this is the question you have to ask
yourself do you want to try to live a
different way
I don't know if I can and I don't know
as I am right now I think of myself as
honestly like disgusting
yeah like actually repulsive okay in in
mind body everything so though it's like
yep
give yourself some time okay so the
first thing is I think it's good that
you're moving out and I think you're the
more that you prioritize yourself you're
gonna build a little bit of confidence I
think it's actually a huge step forward
that you're moving out the second second
thing is that I do think you can repair
your relationships and I think you could
pay off your debt and stuff like that
not to say that not not to say that that
you know that's a guaranteed or anything
but I have I have faith in you and
that's not just like because I'm just a
generally good guy and I have faith in
people I think if you're able to make
money at some point in life generally
speaking like you don't just randomly
make like oh sure winning the lottery is
the exception but even being like on UT
YouTube personality or whatever a twitch
personality like there's some something
that resonated with your community
that's like still there it's like a
skill that you have and as long as
you're able to kind of like pick it up
and polish it off like I think you'll be
able to start generating revenue again
maybe you won't maybe I have no idea
well I think it's possible for you and
that's like sort of an it like it's a
scientific statement it's not like a you
know like oh I'm a nice dude oh yeah I
mean I've clearly demonstrated yeah I
have the tools to do it yeah absolutely
so so I think you can I think you can do
this I think the the last thing and I'm
gonna try to help you with this of
course but and we're gonna meditate I'm
listening and I'm also taking notes
because what you just said to me III
think you have to just be willing to
like let yourself be wrong on all of
this stuff oh right because because like
and I think what you're gonna get is
gonna be just as amazing as Quidditch
like it's you're gonna be surprised like
if you actually let yourself be loved by
someone it's about as good as Quidditch
you know a flying broom I would take a
flying broom over love free oh yeah okay
well I'm just saying like I see what you
mean they're like I mean I'm sure isn't
amazing you know so I mean I'd say that
just just for the sake of seeing what
that feels like
I think you've got to try it so you can
report back and let us know how do i
okay last question what is what do you
feel is the first step to trying that
good assuming I would we're gonna
meditate world that's gonna be number
one okay
what is we're gonna meditate I'm gonna
show you how to do we're gonna do the
first step right now
oh [ __ ] okay yeah sorry no procrastinate
on okay so this guy I want you to sit up
straight okay close your eyes
and you guys can do this at home
especially if you resonate with sky cuz
I'm gonna ask some weird questions so
Scott you're busted right like
fundamentally agree well ways they
busted what do you mean like in a good
way like you're like you're broken good
you're amazing no no no well you're like
a piece of crap
ah yes right that one incapable of being
loved ah that is your fund about a
broken an unfixable so I want you to
tell me I want you to try to find where
that comes from in your body so where
does that feeling arise from like what
is it that you can you find the like the
fundamental brokenness within you the
part of you that is unfixed does it live
anywhere in in your being my weight okay
yeah I would say my weight okay that's
the only thing I can see okay okay so
are you saying that kind of
intellectually or you're saying are you
kind of like you're feeling the
heaviness of your body and you're like
yeah this is like kind of a busted thing
it I mean I could even use this as an
example like just a minute ago you kind
of readjusted yourself on a chair and
you sit up a bit and we could see your
body I never make a situation where
that's possible so it's like I'm already
frame one manipulating the way that I
look just take selfie angles there's an
entire show on catfishing like the the
idea of being someone else or letting
people see with only what they need to
see okay is like close they stop talking
for a second and ah and where do you sew
all the thoughts that you just had can
you find them somewhere in your body
even if it's in your mind that's fine
like I know that sounds kind of weird
but like just just feel the person that
you are which is fundamentally someone
who is who is in control of the world
and incapable of love that's the person
that you are agree or disagree is that
the person that you are right now
yes that's Skye right and you were Skye
strongly agree okay now we're gonna try
some chanting which we did I think
earlier in the week but for those of you
were here so we're gonna try to practice
this again so I'm gonna teach you how to
chant ohm so this is gonna be kind of
weird and hopefully we don't blow
everyone's ears off
so ohm is composed of three syllables
ah-hoo and mm okay so I'm gonna chant
once and you go through all three of
those sounds over the course of one
breath
ah
[Laughter]
Oh
okay so remember that Sapna chanting is
about not sound it's about vibration so
I want you to feel the vibration in your
body as you chant those sounds okay so
we're gonna do it together and the sound
is ie you ah ooh perfect
yeah very good so let's do it together
so deep breath in tight whoa hmm
bigger breath let me hear it let me hear
it again big deep breath okay yeah okay
so I want you to spend longer on the ooh
so big deep breath as big as you could
take and stretch it out as long as you
can one more time
good much better now I want you to
increase the vibration okay one more
time we'll do it together
[Music]
Oh
good again
[Music]
y'all watching at home y'all should do
this - yeah actually paid okay let's say
again big breath in
[Music]
four more breaths
big deep breath
two more make them count
[Music]
last one give it everything you've got
[Laughter]
[Music]
what the hell and I want you to just
feel the person that you are and try to
get a sense of what what's wrong with
this person sort of feel the remnants of
vibration just feel like how do you how
does it feel right now like it feels
like I'm like my like I'm closing my
eyes obviously I feels like my mind is
like shaving off pieces on my mind it's
weird like good keep shaving buddies
like yeah just yeah when you said is
this you said is this person terrible or
something yeah I was always gonna answer
no yeah it was weird
yep but very weird right it's a new
sensation to not be a terrible person
all right
I guess it is possible so it's not about
whether it's possible it's about trying
okay so Skyy I want you to start by
doing this practice every day for three
to five minutes nine breaths nine rounds
three to five minutes oh okay
so nine breaths and just sit with the
person that you are before the practice
it's a different sky from where you are
after the practice the feeling won't
last long but I want you to have an
experience of yourself where you aren't
a piece of [ __ ] and that starts for a
few moments after meditation just sit
with that person to hang out with that
person yeah
okay okay okay all right
questions before we wrap up for the day
yeah are you um god no like ah then
that's it that's all I had asked hey I
appreciate know as usual know if I was
if I was God then I couldn't actually
help anyone but as it turns out Amin and
so the cool thing about being human is
that the experiences that I have I can
actually like the things that happen to
me and my growth in life is actually
applicable to other humans right so
that's kind of cool ah yeah
[ __ ] well I I look forward to our next
meeting there's actually amazing I'm
glad you feel that way yeah uh yeah okay
so I'm gonna do that nine breaths every
day yep because I think we're at the
when it comes to me and my unfixable
problems the finish line is the what we
brought up earlier and I'm looking
forward to at least trying what I can to
do it I'll do it I'll do whatever it
takes all right good I'm very happy to
hear that so just give it your best and
don't beat yourself up when you
inevitably screw up which is okay
because screw ups are a normal part of
life and it doesn't mean that they can't
be fixed so if you miss a day on
meditation don't throw the baby out with
the bathwater just
pick it up the next day or in two days
or in three days pick it up when you can
when you're able to and I don't know
where you live but if there's any kind
of Meditation Center that you can go to
that could help a lot I'm gonna prove to
because it helps to be in a community
with other people who meditate just to
keep you on on on track okay yeah all
right thanks a lot sky good job thank
you thank you as usual thank you for
today yeah man I'm gonna have a lot to
think about
yeah I'm not willing to give up hope on
you yet and I'm glad that you're you're
willing to entertain the idea that maybe
you are fixable
well I'm gonna go shower and cry I'll
talk to you soon you know have a good
cry my friend take care thank you all
right
[Music]